Exploring HTML Applications
Similar to an HTML page, a typical
HTML Application includes html,
body, and script tags followed
by JavaScript or VBScript code.
However, since the HTML Application
is executed outside the browser,
we are free to use legacy and
dangerous features
that are often blocked
within the browser.
In this example, we will leverage
ActiveXObjects, which can potentially,
and dangerously, provide access
to underlying operating system commands.
We can achieve this through
WScript and in particular,
the Windows Script Host Shell object.
Once we instantiate a Windows
Script Host Shell object,
we can invoke its run method
in order to launch an application
on the target client machine.
Let’s create a simple proof-of-concept
HTML Application
that launches a command prompt:
Our code assigns a variable to a
Windows command executable.
This variable is then run
with ActiveXObject
and our Windows Script Host
Shell object.
We can place this code in
a file on our Kali machine
and serve it from the
Apache web server.
Once a victim accesses this
file using Internet Explorer,
they will be presented
with a popup dialog.
This dialog is the result of an
attempted execution of an .hta file.
Selecting Open will prompt
an additional dialog,
since the sandbox protection
of Internet Explorer,
also called Protected Mode,
is enabled by default.
The victim can select Allow
to permit the action
which will execute the JavaScript
code and launch cmd.exe.
This is a start, but it is not as
clean as it could be.
While mshta.exe is executing,
it keeps an additional window
open behind our command prompt.
To avoid this, we can update
our proof-of-concept
to close this window with the
“close” object method.
Now, we can again access our
proof-of-concept in Internet Explorer,
and the additional window
does not appear.
Nice.
This has demonstrated the basic
functionality of an HTA exploit,
but we’ll need to Try Harder
to turn this into an attack.
Instead of using the Run method
to launch cmd.exe,
we will instead turn to the much more
powerful and capable PowerShell framework.